Sacred Way was the beginnning. It began as a combination of canvas and the newly discovered wood media, together with poetry. A voice that was trapped after many years of hiding is bound to speak. I searched for the meanings I painted and sometimes the voice was heard during the painting; like the painting inside spoke. It spoke of all the beauty of the earth, all those hidden secrets I'd taken for granted in that hiding spot, were suddenly released coming up to the surface, although I could not tell you why at the time. It was just happening and I was going with this ride, traveling with its pulse and trusting it. This trust took me to the place of my childhood where I would stare at my wood furniture in my bedroom and for years would see soaring birds in bed boards, holy faces in drawers, figures in the wood grains of various furniture pieces. I day dreamed a lot and found peace and solace letting my mind drift in this way and would just stare and wonder at these images I was seeing. I found it to be a form of escape from the chaos of the family I was born into.

The first series; SACRED WAY was the beginning time, an awakening of myself into Aboriginal being with this new media; painting on the grains from trees. This was my Eastern Doorway into finding my Native Heritage confirming what I only felt in my youth. The part that kind of knew but didn't have proof was now at an understanding entryway into that inner knowing space. Once I had proof of my heritage and the realization settled in, I started learning in a Sacred Way. Reading and traveling to places to find further knowledge, treading very gently to the Native Center, Anishnawbe and places where I might find some part of myself. I traveled wide-eyed with my heart on my sleeve, open to be embraced. It never occurred to me that I wouldn't be, but more, I recognized in First Nations people what had been buried in my soul. The real connection for me was from a spiritual perspective. At powwows, the drumming and singing and dancing seemed to connect me deep in my soul.

I went to ceremonies and gatherings. I had such respect and pride, for what price this train leaving had held me as the wreck; the one left behind, and as I learned from history, a lot had been taken and a lot of time had been lost. I realized that my catch-up was not solo, that many were were running to catch up to that same train and as we all boarded we sensed the loss and the gain and the sadness. Like some memory that could not be told but only remembered in the heart.

 This realness I recognized in me, but had been held in check all my life; in a non-native sense, the imbalance of the physical and intellectual had overpowered the values of the spiritual and emotional, and I was at odds and awe at such holistic realness. For they would speak the truth freely of the spiritual realm and in the non-native world, the spirit world and any truth that made one uncomfortable, was held at bay. I never felt like I fit into the non-native materialistic world with an emphasis on nothing speak.

It was during the time of Sacred Way that I found what would later be called "Tree Spirit". A wild woman reaching for the sky with her red hair flying all around spoke to me of where I wanted to be. There she was, reaching up inside a piece of plywood in the basement. Her knots became her nipples and her grains spoke of wildness and going to places I had always been restricted from going. I had always been firmly anchored into conservative safe concrete, which kept me tied to the walls and hiding from notice. 

But still the imagery haunted me, so I ignored all those nasty voices inside and outside and I took her up to my art room and painted her free. "Tree Spirit" began my journey into wood. And it was with this Anishinabe brush that I spoke and it was with this Anishinabe hand that I wrote and found the words to freedom. Freedom from chaos, freedom to be myself, freedom to love myself, freedom to know myself and freedom to go into the shadowlands and face all those angry faces and still stand, stand on my truth, trust myself and grow from it. This was my Sacred Way of learning how to be, of growing and becoming and I took this new poker hand I was dealt and placed everything I owned on it.

I had a show of this work called "Sacred Way" in Parry Sound and a woman came in with her friends, obviously out partying and on their way somewhere else. They were just dropping in quickly to look and left and within moments, she returned and bought the painting "Tree Spirit", stating she had to have it. It spoke to her and so she bought it and left. The wood paintings brought a lot of attention. They were so different and something that no one had ever seen. With their glass like finish, the images within the wood stood out pronouncedly. So I determined that from that point on, I would focus all my energies on the wood pieces that spoke so powerfully of my Anishinabe roots and what had taught me so profoundly about myself and the world around me.
