Where Sacred Way and Spoken Trees were about my quest for learning, the series NO NEED TO HIDE was learning about the many ways of hiding and its title came about only from the process, as everything else did as well. I was a girl in hiding, protecting and being protected, similar to the way many Anishinabe Peoples were doing to protect themselves from thievery, their culture, their tongue, their children, their very lives. My childhood was much the same. To protect your soul, your sacred space, it was better to hide it. If it was out there, it would be taken, spoiled, made fun of, ridiculed, punished, beaten. To hide was self preservation and so the progression of the work had lock stepped my internal growth once again, where I did not need to hide any longer. I was free finally. I had grown enough and was in a space now with my own family, my husband and my sons who loved me, where I felt safe, respected and supported as me, where I was heard and listened to, whatever me came out. No Need To Hide was a place of flowering - A summer place of freedom and growth. No cold airs to stop or hinder my growth; a clear open environment to allow and inspire more of the same. It was in this languid space that I trusted more of what was within buried for so long. I was coming unglued in a good and natural way.

The gatherings with my First Nations family were feeling more like family then I had ever felt with my mother and father. The comfort to be home, independent, welcome and free from imposed hiding was the exact environment I had been missing all my growing years. My Native ancestry was hidden, as was done to protect children from emotional scars, residential schools, another reason for this locked up feeling inside. My grandmother would only hint; saying completely out of the blue, that the Native people are a good people. She showed us the fancy dance one time right at the dining room table showing us all, telling us it was called the fancy dance but not telling us its source. She was married to my anishinabe grandfather who died when I was two and although I was told of my French heritage, the Aboriginal one stayed missing. My mother said she didn't know about her aboriginal side. It was better back then, not to let anyone know, but there is no need to hide it any longer. I'd rather be me then to hide as I had to for so long, from my sister's violence and parents who had neither the time nor the emotional space to allow their children a voice. I was not hiding inside with my grandmother anymore, for I was safe with my own family now, safe where sound comes from inside, even the sadness could have a voice. No Need To Hide are all the words all the strength, all the trust and all the freedoms to finally fly into an unbidden sky.
