And then my dad died one cold January day in 2000. He was the one who caused all the madness in my youth, who set my mother up for heartache after heartache, who punished my sister for fighting him and protecting her mother, who created so many walking wounded. He had returned to me in 1990, secretly dying of liver disease to try and heal all his past, what had taken 35 years to break, he tried in 10 to glue and fix and tie together. In his latter years, he showed me his fire was just about love, an over protective distracted love. His pain would be later borne into the bones of everyone he loved, for he could not control his desires or his critical tongue. His pain was borne out of his own insecurities and bound in his pace for he moved faster then he could think, faster then anyone could keep up. But here he was and here I was older now and connected now to my inner self, strong enough through the inner teachings to rely on it and face that fire and confirm my freedom from him.

And here's what happened. It seemed that I taught him in the end about what was important in life from what I learned in my culture. But because he wanted to fix what he broke, he understood what he had to give. Yes it was the time that was so expensive, and so he spent it outside with me walking, gardening, talking on the front porch, shopping, lunching. We spent it together the King and I, time became valuable only once it was spent. He even babysat for me when I wanted to go to a class. He loved my humour and would laugh at all my 'one liners'. I became his confidant and he would listen to my advice. His lasting legacy to me was to set me free. He never trusted anyone but in the end he trusted me. The abused and the abuser would come full circle together.

My grandmother kept me glued tight from his verbal abuse but he came full circle and empowered me. I created my next series called "PLACES OF TRANSITION" during a time of mourning and looking back at all the tough lessons he taught, of working hard and grabbing hold of your dreams and not let go, to have integrity and stand up for what you want. He taught me about going through pain, he expressed his emotions with me, we battled but reasoned. He was a man of transition always moving, in between places. A big part of me died that January 2000, more than I knew. His presence was special and was missed and was now gone forever. I can still see his sweet smile, feel his warm hug, and languish in his easy laugh knowing I was loved and finally appreciated for being me as I stood up for me. He came full circle for me, and now I felt I missed his train. It only stopped here briefly and although it felt like it was longer. It wasn't. Ten years was such a short time get to know and understand your father, but I know it was meant to be this way. I didn't paint on wood for a whole year after that. I held no shows, in fact I did not have one till 2002. I had group shows in 2001 but no time for solos.

Mourning is a place of transition as you wait in sadness for life to begin again. You wait in the past that washes over in tears until tomorrow will begin and it can take years to find tomorrow, to resolve all the emotions that made up the relationship because you are the only part left and so you work for two. And after he died I watched with great interest and sadness as the US changed and this too became a part of this series of watching the push and bully tactics with disgust as a country transforms into a protectionist state.

This work encompasses a stronger voice of looking deeper into the external things, that just appear on the surface as one thing but upon closer inspection is something quite different. The in between time before the changes take place. This parlays into the present cross border politics that strikingly resembles my past. A republican king represses the public for control. The accusation would be lack of loyalty to the flag. They are somewhat compromised in their security and privacy tallying protection as their ultimate goal, but ultimately it is about control. They are not allowed to disagree and have fallen for the line of "traitor". They are told lies for continued manipulation & the media plumps it up so they won't be cut off by the corporations. It is now a scary time and not from the terrorists, but from the nationalists inside.

People are so busy looking out, they can't see the real danger is inside their own government. These are the same rulers in government that did the same thing to the Aboriginal peoples, that is being done now to the Middle Eastern People. Rounding up arresting them, creating fear in the rest about an attack, creating havoc and mayhem externally, so the internal will depend more on the hierarchy. Enforcing a regime change, calling it democracy, changing a people to be more like them. All really to take what is theirs; for the reds it was their land and for the browns it is their oil. And nothing matters to these people in power, how they extract what they want. The price will be and has been many many lives. It continues to be but also the life blood of our mother earth for the more immediate result of making these rulers richer will be burned at her peril. There is no proof to their claims and accusations and yet this abomination is replayed. We were heathens and savages in their eyes causing everyone to fear us. "They said we wanted their lives, but we just wanted ours." And so "Places of Transition" refers to my mourning response to both the inner and outer realms before life as I knew it could continue. 
