A Deeper Look Inside remembers our Warriors "Song For the Fallen Warriors of 1812" and "Tecumseh & the Prophet" who fought to protect the earth and the year 2000 finds us fighting wars for what we can take from the earth. I am looking deeply from the loss of my father and the year 2000 which was the beginning of wars.  Looking into self I ask the question as to identity of who I am in my world. I look deeper into myself in "Butterfly Caught In the Web", at the politics of quantum blood count, at who determines who you are based on your racial status card not asked of any other race. As with any closer look inside comes questions of solidarity, removing the objective strict adherence to a European mandate. "Drifting on A Day" asks the question of where are you going? Are you doing what you were meant to do or as most, letting days go in and out and excusing themselves from responsibility to themselves. "The Prayer" looks closer at how I pray in my everyday life and how it is an important part of my life. My grandmother taught me how to pray from the time she asked me to pray that my mom and dad would not divorce. I found feathers as I walked so I knew I was on the right path. My grandmother  was the peace keeper and she taught me how to have peace in my life. "Between Two Women" takes a closer look at the relationships of women and how words are used carefully in their connection. This was a time for greater introspection for me in global context as well as a personal one.

The next three series were the honouring series. These are the special medicines that I respect, give voice to, honour in the roads to healing coming full circle through Aboriginal Healing Ways.
