2006 Messages Between Blue and Red comes from the Sioux teaching and my own journey in understanding that since my father passed away over six years ago, I still feel his presence. I have felt his presence on many occasions helping me along my Red Road.  And there are days where I feel there has always been someone looking out after me and my family, like a spirit helper. Messages Between Blue and Red harkens to the Sioux teaching that sees the connection between our Blue and Red Roads meeting.  Our Red Road is our earth walk, our physical walk .  Our blue road is our spirit walk, where ancestors can be met.  Where they meet is our heart – a powerful place.  It is the duality of life which brings balance and it is finding the spiritual inside the physical which finds truth and meaning and is a powerful place.

The creation story of When Sky Woman Was Falling finds the balance of both Earth and Spirit in her as she populates Turtle Island.  In the Heart that I Kill  speaks of the harshness of our Earth walk and how hard it is when our external coverings determines how we will be treated.  Finding Blue Jay’s Voice is about speaking out on our earth walk and standing up for ourselves like Blue Jay does. That he is misjudged because his covering is so pretty, and the expectation that he won’t be aggressive, but just a pretty songbird, works well for him, for he is like Raven without the dark covering. His song is jagged and he squawks and it is because he is so pretty that no one suspects his aggressive ways. Again his external covering is what he is judged by with preconceived expectations and this works for him. Blue Roads Answering Prayers is about ancestors crossing over to answer our prayers. Red Roads Protection is almost like a prayer but more like a ceremony for protection of all that is creation; on the earth, of the hand, in culture, dance, and song and where the old teach the young for culture to survive, and artist’s continue to create and carry the message further to heal the earth.  So I found the imagery in the knots and recreated them freehand as a statement of empowerment by recreating the growth of a knot into imagery of the vision from my mind. I did this in both Blue Roads and Red Roads: CREATION AS CEREMONY